Intro

I want to give a very brief contextual concepts within Web1, Web2, and Web3.
Please dont blame me if you know some information in details be 
free to speak about it at the end of the presentation

For users and most for developers the web has evolved dramatically over the years.
For this presentation I want to explore the web and discuss about the state of art 
and take some Ideas for the future

web1
The concept of hypertext predates the world wide web for several decades.
the almost hypertext systems relied on local files.
Here Sir Tim Berners-Lee, English computer scientist,
implemented the first successful communication between a client and server via Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) via the Internet.
This allow individuals to link from one file on one machine to another file on another.

dec 1990 Berners-Lee develop the first file browsing application. a Browser and file Editor.

this is the birth of the first stage of the web revolution, usually refered as the read-only web.
Websites were informational and contained only static content that was hyperlinked together.

The websites were built using Server Side Includes or Common Gateway Interface (CGI) 
instead of a web application written in a dynamic programming language such as Perl, PHP, Python or Ruby.

Users on the internet were consumers of content created by content creators.

You were not able to send files from one computer to another
Use of floppy discs to transfer files
Emergence of www in the early 1990s

TECH:
HTML
XML 1998
First web browsers
Search engines
Wikipedia (2001 foundation)


web2
the second stage offers a read-write web.
Emphasis that user generated content, boost the culture of participation and interoperability.
this brought about a fundamental shift, where people could share their perspectives, 
opinions, thoughts, and experiences through a variety of online tools and platforms like Youtube, Twitter, Facebook.
and the emerging of e-commerce and search engines like google and amazon.

the data is stored in a centralized server or cloud provider controlled by the big corporates.
This is a little controversial because the data can be used as information to promote the comsumption from the users
At the End users are the product - Data Breaches

Revolutionized social interactions
Emergence of social media, e-commerce, etc.
P2P interactions on a GLOBAL scale
HTML code use in websites, leading to much prettier UIs
Data is stored on servers, drives, and the cloud
The “Frontend Revolution”

TECH
HTML5 (2014) replace HTML4 ()Flash Player, DOM Level2, Audio, Video, semantic Tagging, Ontology,  
Javascript - liveScript (1995) for Netscape - Brendan Eich
CSS3 (2012) Cascading styles sheets


web3
the third stage aims to create a dezentralized (use decentralized protocols) networks, 
but secure (self-governing), (smart contracts) to reduce as much data as posible
internet in which people can securely exchange money and information, 
without the need for middlemen or big tech companies.
the power of investors and stackeholders
web3 as the solution for the massive networking between users and the increasing use of the Internet.
Web 3 applications either runs on blockchain, peer to peer nodes (servers).
Some people predict that in web3, you will be the content owner.
Corporations has to run their applications in groups called  DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization)
There is no need for CEO or upper management in a company.
Because your digital identity is not tied to your real identity in web3, 
you can be anonymous on the internet while still living your usual life.
Cryptocurrency is built on top of the internet itself

What is Blockchain
basically are blockchains chunks of data, It can be a financial transaction, an invoice, a bill of lading, most anything really that can be stored digitally. 
that block also includes something else — a hash from the block added to the chain right before it.
What is a hash? Think of it as a mathematically calculated fingerprint that represents all the data in that block.
Each block includes the fingerprint of the prior block, and it’s this chaining of hashes that gives the blockchain its immutable properties. 
If someone were to go back and change a transaction in the chain, that would change the hash of that block and also all the subsequent hashes.
Blockchain as a Services (BaaS) or Backend as a Service

AWS a cloud-managed platform that allows people and organizations to more easily and quickly build, host, and manage blockchain applications.

TECH
Token Economy
Reinvents the way data is stored and managed on the internet
Enable TRUE P2P Interactions
The “Backend Revolution”

Problems:
The technology does not solve a real problem, blockchain simply recreating slower and worse versions of processes and structures that already exist.
So called “cryptocurrencies” aren’t actually currencies, and cannot fulfil the function of money because they are not stable and Money is always going to be inseparable from politics.
The history of private money is one of repeated disasters that destroy public trust.
Crypto assets are all unregistered securities.


The compute and bandwidth problem to scale blockchain.
Mining is not eco-friendly and consumes a lot of energy to mine and verify transactions. Here's a Cambridge University article about it.
If you’re familiar with other databases, you’ll notice that this ledger sounds a lot like transaction logs or journaling. 

cloud
AWS entered the race a little late but offers a stable solution with AWS Blockchain Templates is a feature that makes them different from other BaaS providers.
Does not offer a dedicated Workbench like Azure
Microsoft Azure blockchain was the first major tech company to announce BaaS functionality to companies and developers and also has the largest compliance portfolio in the industry.
Azure allows you to work on the most commonly used blockchain network Ethereum. 
IBM Cloud was one of the first significant cloud operators to get into the hosted blockchain game. 
As a result, it has one of the most mature offerings. 
IBM hosts blockchains for some mega corporations, such as Walmart, and shipping giant Maersk. 
Additionally, IBM has and continues to contribute heavily to Hyperledger Fabric, a very popular open-source blockchain framework – and the software behind their branded blockchain offerings.
Oracle Cloud also works with Hyperledger Fabric, They currently host blockchains in the fashion, transport, healthcare, and financial services industries. 
Both Oracle and IBM leverage their large enterprise customer relationships to promote their blockchain offerings – it’s just another tool in the toolbox for their customers.

Azure and SAP have made 2019 a step back from Blockchain.

According to Gartner’s famed Hype Cycle, blockchain-as-a-service is currently drudging through what Gartner calls “the trough of disillusionment.” 
Meaning, all those elevated expectations are being hashed out, no pun intended.

Sumary
The main take-away point you wanted to get from that is that Web3 completely changes how the backend of the internet works, 
just like how Web2 completely changed how the frontend of the internet works from Web1.
If Your lose your key then You lose your bitcoins

sources:
https://dev.to/narottam04/web-10-web-20-web-30-explained-591n
https://messari.io/screener
https://decrypt.co/
https://a16z.com/web3-policy/
https://lbry.com/
https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/de/article/what-is-web-3-0
https://aleph.im/#/architecture
https://thenewstack.io/aleph-im-is-like-a-decentralized-aws-lambda-for-web3-dapps/
https://www.stephendiehl.com/blog/blockchainism.html
https://101blockchains.com/aws-vs-azure-vs-oracle-blockchain/
https://academy.101blockchains.com/courses/ethereum-technology-course
https://101blockchains.com/aws-vs-azure-vs-oracle-blockchain/
https://medium.com/the-capital/what-is-web3-and-why-is-it-important-to-understand-in-2022-904deedb86cd
https://acloudguru.com/blog/engineering/blockchain-cloud-comparison-what-is-blockchain-as-a-service-baas
https://john-mecke.medium.com/5-stories-about-people-who-lost-their-bitcoin-cdaaae329468
https://techcrunch.com/2016/12/30/blockchain-technologies-entered-the-trough-of-disillusionment-in-2016-but-2017-will-be-brighter/
The future of blockchain 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_hWgZc9xrU
https://opencollective.com/democracyearth